# Inrusion-Detection-System
Got a suspicious intrusion around your place? Is an unidentified being trying to encroach in? In order to solve such problems this is an automatic facial-recognition based database management system.The Intrusion Detection System is a Python-based model designed to provide Facial recognition-based security system. This security system can be installed at places which require high security and constant surveillance. The project uses the principles of Image Processing and Deep Learning to generate authorized user databases after which it can scan faces which try to enter the premises in a particular periphery. If an unauthorized intrusion is detected, an emergency alarm will be generated as a security breach.

## WORKING
As the first line of defense, we have a facial distance measurer which will calculate your distance from the security camera. Once a particular threshold is crossed, it will ask us to wait for facial recognition. In this project the threshold is fixed as 65cm. Then, the system will start searching its database for matches. If the face matches with the database, a welcome message will be generated. The model also gives other accessibility options to the users. The user can make a “new user registration” and “delete an existing face from the database”. While making a new user registration the model will take 50 images of the user’s face and train a Deep learning model and store it in its database. If a face doesn’t match with the database, a loud emergency alarm will be generated to alert everyone
